---
author: tpotts
pubDatetime: 2024-09-05T11:04:55Z
title: Study Journal 05-09-2024
slug: sj-20240905
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - study-journal
description: Study Journal entry for 05-09-2024
---

# Where I'm at

- I missed yesterday, I had a day of meetings at my own business. It was an ok day, would rather be at my desk where I'm the most productive though.
- Needing to make some more progress on my crypto project, and hoping to some good progress before my first child is born in a few weeks.

# What I learnt

- Learnt? More like bashed my head against the wall staring at simple problems thinking they were complex and missing the very simple answer.

# What I did

- I thought that the last study journal was important because it had a really big psychological profile for my ADHD-i, and that if anyone reading wanted to analyse their own psychological profile that it could serve as something to go off. So I created a post just for it, [you can check it out here.](ex-adhd.md)
- Worked through the datapoints that I required for a daily coin list for the crypto project, basically figuring out what I can get for free with public API's and then manipulating that into the format that I need.

# What I reviewed

The content that I reviewed today was: [All hail web apps](./ex-allhailwebapps.md)

- Funny this isn't a study journal that I'm reviewing, but an extra blog post about why I think web apps are better than mobile apps. Basically it was based off a comment I saw somewhere that the author placed an argument as why web app should be seen as universal apps, and that mobile apps are kind of at a disadvantage.
- It was also running through my early understanding of SvelteKit, which is good to see how the file-router works for instance.
- It was going to be a replication of my mobile app, but reimagined as a web app but that got shut down over time because I wouldn't be able to pass it onto someone in my business who was as technically literate. Ah well. It was a good exercise.
