---
author: tpotts
pubDatetime: 2024-08-29T11:27:42Z
title: Study Journal 29-08-2024
slug: sj-20240829
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - study-journal
  - javascript
description: Study Journal entry for 29-08-2024
---

# Where I'm at

- Working through my personal crypto project, needing to start on the logical side of buy / sell functionality
- Going through O'Reilly's JavaScript book still, needing to continue on where I left off which is s 3.9 Type Conversions.

# What I learnt

## JavaScript

- All variables must be declared before they can be accessed. This is used by using the `let` and `const` keywords. The `var` keyword is mostly deprecated in terms of favouring using the `let` and `const` keywords instead.
- A good programming habit is declaring variables with initial values, when possible.
- If you don't declare an initial value, it will be simply `undefined`.
- **Destructuring Assignment:** Works really great when you want to extract values from an object and put them into distinct variables.
- Literals: Just objects or array's that are declared, and explicitly assigned their value in the one expression.

# What I did

- Read through the O'Reilly's book, making notes as above, or asking Claude for some further clarification.

# What I reviewed

The content that I reviewed today was: [Study Journal entry for 15-11-2023](./sj-20231115.md)

- At this time, I was working through my mobile application. I was working through state management in Flutter, and going through requirements for a stocktake function.
- Basically it was to get a counter working properly with Riverpod, which at the time was utterly stumping me. This was before I understood it properly.
- Really not much detail, I think I was just busy banging my head against a wall for the most part.
