---
author: tpotts
pubDatetime: 2024-08-23T10:58:16Z
title: Study Journal 23-08-2024
slug: sj-20240823
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - study-journal
  - git
  - paradigms
  - privacy-policy
description: Study Journal entry for 23-08-2024
---

# Where I'm at

- Yesterday I was able to make some good progress on Svelte Wagmi (a deprecated package that uses Svelte stores for reactivity), and I converted it's stores into runes. I intend on doing two things:
  - Getting a transaction working using Ganache; and
  - Picking apart my port of Svelte runes and starting to use it with my own components, etc.
- Continue on with my study of Javascript with the O'Reilly book
- Taking a break from going further with my idea on storing large data-sets on-chain for now. Let's walk before we can run.

# What I learnt

- Honestly, I don't think I really learnt anything today. I didn't get a chance to study, or really do any work that made me learn something new.

# What I did

- Integrated more of my port of Svelte Wagmi runes into my project, creating a connect wallet button that nicely reacts to being connected, in the process of connection, and disconnecting.

# What I reviewed

The content that I reviewed today was: [Study Journal entry for 02-10-2023](./sj-20231002.md)

- This was during my time developing my mobile app, and I was researching privacy policies. It's some hard stuff but also there's really not much enforcement.
- Some random notes on git ... yeah that's all mostly fine now I just do "git push main origin --force" 😁
- I made some notes on some advice given, basically going from zero to hero on learning a new langugage, when to stick to a paradigm, and when to abandon it.
