---
author: tpotts
pubDatetime: 2024-08-07T11:11:19Z
title: Study Journal 07-08-2024
slug: sj-20240807
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - study-journal
  - astro
  - endpoints
  - twitter
description: Study Journal entry for 07-08-2024
---

# Where I'm at

- In the process of migrating all of my old blog posts to this new format and blog space.
- For my own crypto project, I'm currently building out some components in Svelte 5 using Runes because that's basically non-existant. If you want to do anything with Web3 then basically you're more or less forced to use React. Which is lame.

# What I learnt

- How to create an endpoint in Astro, you have to tell to stop pre-rendering when you have a hybrid system of some server endpoints and some static content. I think Svelte does this automatically.

# What I did

- Migrated all of my old blog posts to this new platform, the blog entries are fairly sporadic because there were some periods that were missing, or the entry had to be scrubbed of personal details so much so that it was better to just leave it as an empty entry.
- Created a Powershell script to redo the naming and included content for migrating the old blog posts. I also then ended up creating a script to create new study journal entries. _If you want to use these then please feel free, [they're at the root of the git repo.](https://github.com/teepeethree/blog)_
- I created a simple subscribe to mailing list, which captures just:

  ```
  {uuid: number, email: string, active: boolean}
  ```

  Join the cult of personality, I swear there's something you will learn from my emails.

- I also redid my Twitter / X profile, [you can see it here.](https://x.com/tpotts_eth) I had another profile but I had an old phone number, so I decided to abandon it because it was too much hassle. Anyway -- got the new one now!
