---
author: tpotts
pubDatetime: 2024-08-27T13:36:44Z
title: Study Journal 27-08-2024
slug: sj-20240827
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - study-journal
  - clear-thinking
  - RESTful-API
description: Study Journal entry for 27-08-2024
---

# Where I'm at

- Currently working through my personal crypto project still, which is nearly the finish of the first module to connect, and disconnect the user.
- Thinking through some more work on my business including a new mini-application that would set-up a new employee on all our systems at once.
- There's a few bits and pieces of things I need to do, but I'll try and get those small things out of the way so that my desk isn't "cluttered".
- Trying to remember the context!

# What I learnt

- Went through again the book "Clear Thinking" by Shane Parrish, to reiterate the points that he made. I'll come out with my notes in due time once I've finished reading and writing my notes.
- That I'm not overwhelmed by the size of tasks, but by the number of tasks. I could have 3 huge tasks (that takes a few weeks at best) and be relatively calm, but if I had a collection of 20 tiny tasks (that could be in say a few hours) I feel overwhelmed. Probably something to do with my ADHD, it's weird.
- I like learning by seeing the end state first, like give me the most up-to-date method first, and that usually how I can work best. Sometimes that's not sufficient and it's important to return to first principles so I can understand the context better.

# What I did

- Worked through the requirements of the mini-application which would need to do the following:
  - Create a user profile for our:
    - Payroll system;
    - E learning system;
    - WordPress;
    - Timekeeping system;
  - It'd work by the new employee entering their details into the system, and then it's reviewed. If it's all fine then we'd make everything all at once.
  - The end result is that it'd gather the user profiles, create a contract for signature and then send it all as an email.
- Created a placeholder UI for my personal crypto project, which is making me feel better because now I can really just focus on the logic.

# What I reviewed

The content that I reviewed today was: [Study Journal entry for 14-03-2024](./sj-20240314.md)

- It was a really short entry, it was more about really just defining a generic data block, and then extending it. The point was that we'd be able to standardise RESTful calls to and fro the database in a much more efficient and predictable way. I never really went further than that.
