---
author: tpotts
pubDatetime: 2024-08-02T00:00:00Z
title: Study Journal 02-08-2024
slug: sj-20240802
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - study-journal
description: Study Journal entry for 02-08-2024
---

## Where I'm at

- Reevaluating options for the business I'm in -- probably to implement a central knowledge base to keep all knowledge, standard operating procedures, etc.
- Thinking of upgrades to this blog, including creating some API endpoints to return some data, such as a resume JSON object.
- Returning to implementing more of my personal crypto project, including finishing off some more classes and functionality.
  - I have been working on a module for the transaction functionality, just because that's what I started writing in to get started. But it's probably better for me to try to figure out the low-level functionality first.
  - That being ... how we do we connect to the blockchain and by extension user's wallets?

## What I learnt

- Working on my own is probably the best thing for me, because one thing that I have a hard time dealing with is an unclear sense of direction, which leads to further unclear instructions on tasks.

  If I work on my own I know that I can clarify the requirements as they naturally arise.

  Working in a small team also works well.

## What I did

- I researched alternatives to the library `Web3Onboard`, because if they have an issue with using `pnpm` then I'd rather use an alternative library.

  - It appears that `Web3Auth` looks like a good fit. It combines Web3 auth providers like WalletConnect and Metamask, and the ability to create a wallet from your social logins like Google.

    But... I really don't see anything from the community since a year ago?

  - Another option is `Privy` which looks pretty good. But ... it's React only.

- I decided that using Wagmi Core (the vanilla JS library) was probably the best option, because it was widely used, and still works well with Svelte.
