---
author: tpotts
pubDatetime: 2023-11-13T00:00:00Z
title: Study Journal 13-11-2023
slug: sj-20231113
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - study-journal
  - pragmatic-thinking
  - design
  - state-management
description: Study Journal entry for 13-11-2023
---

# Where I'm at

### Onward - Finishing up the Stocktake Form - Initialisation, Completion and Submission

Status update:

1.  Initialisation - nearly complete
2.  Completion - about halfway
3.  Submission - not much progress -- have psuedocode for submission logic

Tasks for completion for today:

- Finish off initialisation - this is the requirements:
  - Allows user to use the button on the right conditions
    - Understands the context - by calculating the week and reading the database for existing records.
    - For the future - getting context from a custom claim JWT (Auth token) - that will be how we determine the users associated location, role, etc.
  - When pressed it does three actions:
    - Writes a new blank stocktake
    - Opens the stocktake widget
    - Locks the stocktake for the other user

# What I learnt

## Random thoughts to checkout

- CSvisTool - understanding data structures and algorithms
- Notion - Planning tasks in software development
- Ani-cli - some random anime CLI program that allows you to watch HD anime for free?
- TODO Tree - VS Code extension for compiling TODO lists
- Background Noise - better with or without it? Probably without. I like music though.
- Functional Programming - time to check out Rust?
- Build your own X - Github repo
- devtoolbox.co - all those annoying tasks automated in one single place!
- Zapier - automate tasks
- TinyWow - free micro-services

## From “Pragmatic Thinking and Learning”

Finished Chapter 3 - This Is Your Brain:

### **CPU 1 vs CPU 2**

Basically there's two modes of _thinking_ - people consider this left / right brain. It's a bit more nuanced than that and can be more accurately described as _linear_ mode and _rich_ mode:

| Item              | L-Mode                                                                                  | R-Mode                                                                           |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Description       | Logical                                                                                 | Emotional                                                                        |
| Strengths         | Working through details, logical thinking <br> **Analysis - learning by pulling apart** | Intuition, problem solving, creativity <br> **Synthesis - learning by building** |
| Memory            | Short-term memory                                                                       | Retrieval for long-term memory and ideas that are "in process"                   |
| Conscious         | Controllable - often described as the conscious brain                                   | Uncontrollable - sort of like peripheral vision                                  |
| Storage           | Stores only a fraction - good at indexing                                               | Stores everything - poor at indexing                                             |
| Retrieval         | Searching narrowly                                                                      | Searches all memory - including _unindexed_ memories                             |
| Verbal            | Verbal                                                                                  | Non-verbal - can retrieve words though                                           |
| Order of Relating | Abstractions of objects (Small piece of object extracted to fit the larger picture)     | Concrete relationships between objects                                           |
| Time              | Aware of time                                                                           | Unaware of time                                                                  |
| Determines        | Answers                                                                                 | Questions                                                                        |
| Level of Thinking | Low level                                                                               | High level                                                                       |

### Capture your thoughts 24/7

The brain (both sides) is constantly offering up good suggestions!

Take note of them – The brain produces more of what you think is worth paying attention to!

For me I know that writing on the whiteboard is the best way to do so

### Acting vs Ideating

- Everyone has great ideas
- Far fewer people keep track of them
- Of those, less act on them
- And of those, less can pull it off

Keeping track of your ideas is the first step in acting on your thoughts.

### Using R-mode in learning

- Learning by synthesis - or by building is such a powerful learning technique
- For example, the dialectic in creating a feature of starting with data, then skipping to the UI, then returning to the logic leverages both R-mode and L-mode.
- The GM of General Motors said that they're in the business of _art, entertainment, sculpture - that also provide transportation_.
- iPod shows that for business - design trumps features. Attractive interfaces are easier to use than unattractive interfaces - even though the functionality is the same.
- Being “happy” broadens your thought processes, and brings more of your hardware online.
  - This makes me wonder if the Ying / Yang model of “happiness” is a good visual representation - that happiness is emphemeral, but long-term satisfaction comes from a balance of stress and success.
  - Happiness in my opinion then becomes the emotion we experience when we've effectively “leveled up" from our current challenges - we got some more money, we figured out that problem we've been wrestling with, we got together or away from that person, etc.
  - Happiness does mean that we can take on more challenges, and bringing on more resources from the brain. We feel that we can do _anything_.
  - This also means that designing an attractive interface means that the subject will think more deeply about what's going on
- Conversely - being angry or fearful means that your brain is shutting down cognitive resources for fight / flight / freeze response

### Selection - creating attractive things

- Beauty comes from the selection of a near amount of infinite choices - just the right selection and assembly of those choices
- Knowing what that is comes from _pattern matching_ that comes from both R-mode and L-mode thinking - and experts use both.
  - Global, holistic pattern matching => R-mode “sees the forest”
  - Detailed pattern matching => L-mode “sees the trees”
  - Some fortunate few have an integrated and equal sense of using both R-mode and L-mode => “seeing the trees and the forest”

### Rewiring your brain for learning

- We aren't stuck into thinking paths because of our biology - our brains are very plastic and maleable
- **Rewiring comes from belief, and constant practice**
  - If you really simply believe your brain can comprehend more, it will
  - The brain really goes by “Use it or lose it” motto for brain real estate - practice your skill to protect that area of real estate

## Portal - Development

### Data and State Management Model

1.  Data Models
    1.  Think of this as what am I actually trying to capture for later use? E.g. stock item `name`, `count`, `location`, etc
        1.  Consider **not** only what data you are trying to capture - but also maybe how you will create _**relationships**_ between other models - stock item model that defines a `itemId` that is then also used in the stocktake model. Also consider _**metadata**_ requirements - e.g. the `dateTime`of the stocktake or the users `id`.
        2.  Think in terms of the _object,_ and also _relationships_. Metadata is really just a special relationship with the functioning of the application.
        3.  To figure these out - you must understand what exactly the purpose of the feature is doing. What is the stocktake feature in exact and precise terms doing?
            1.  Streamlining the stocktake count process by giving a more user friendly interface (e.g. only showing user relevant data)
            2.  Helping the user with more context specific information to help guide the users (e.g. showing the last count numbers on a new stocktake being initialised)
            3.  Getting more quality data inputs to guide business decisions (e.g. ensuring quality through only presenting appropriate UI elements and or validation logic)
2.  States
    1.  Think of this is as a _**snapshot**_ of data that I'm trying to capture. While not all data is displayed, what is - do I need to hold onto it?
    2.  Flutter will recreate each widget when there is a _change_ this means - do I need to instruct Flutter to not recreate this part of the widget when that change occurs?
    3.  So imagine it as we're taking a snapshot - and then tell me what information we need to capture. This data will then be held either to be held in the database, affect other state changes, etc.
3.  Notifiers
    1.  Think of this as what is taking the snapshot and or changing things - it is executing the logic of the application (the change element between data and UI)
    2.  This is best thought as “If I have this data - the visuals needs to change this way” or “The user used the UI - the data needs to change this way”
    3.  The Notifier can do this either by it's own methods (the real logic of the application) and by also incorporating methods from _**repositories**_.
    4.  **StateNotifiers -** A combination of both, best to leave complex state management to separate States / Notifiers in my opinion. StateNotifiers are useful for basic or singular implementations such as intialisation or submission logic.
4.  Repositories
    1.  This is a collection of methods to accessing data into the application. In concrete terms this is a CRUD call to Firestore.
    2.  This can also have more specialised methods for particular methods - such as intialisation or submission methods
    3.  Can depend on **interfaces** that allow for easy refactoring of how methods are implemented - e.g. instead of calling Firestore, we can check local device data.
5.  Providers / Consumers
    1.  Providers are simple methods that give access to all the methods defined in the Notifiers, and Repositories
        1.  If we are saying here's the data (the model), and this is relevant to the UI (the state), because when X happens then Y changes (the notifiers or repositories), then we need a way to access all of those classes. This is where the Provider comes in.
    2.  The Consumer is simply the opposite - where a widget can read the Provider and implement the logic as intended.

### Development Pathway

1.  Data - Models
2.  UI - Placeholder widgets
3.  State Management - Integrate logic
4.  Integration
5.  Testing
6.  Deployment
