---
author: tpotts
pubDatetime: 2024-08-17T10:50:14Z
title: Study Journal 17-08-2024
slug: sj-20240817
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - study-journal
description: Study Journal entry for 17-08-2024
---

# Where I'm at

- Some weekend study -- I got my book on Javascript

# What I learnt

- JavaScript has _tpye coercion_ which basically means if you use an operator like `-`, `*`, `/`, or `%` (but not `+`) it attempts to convert the values into numbers.
  - E.g. "1423" - "41" => Convert both strings to numbers (1423 - 41) and then calculate (1423 - 41 = 1382)
  - `+` is special that it allows concatenation of strings like "cat" + "dog" = "catdog"
  - Using operators for any real strings other than `+` will result in `NaN` (Not a Number) value being returned.
- Shorthand operators like `+=` or `*=`:
  - Instead of having to write something like `let count = 0`, and then `count = count + 2`, you can just use `count += 2`
- Comparing two string values like:
  - "a" > "y" = false
  - It's basically backwards to our inituition, where we think of "a" in the first position so in a way it's larger.
  - It just boils down to the first letter "a" is assigned a Unicode decimal value of 97 (whereas "A" is 65).
  - So "a" = 97 and "y" = 121 => 97 > 121 = false
- Expressions vs statements:
  - Generally speaking, if you see declarative keywords such as `let`, `for`, `if`, etc it's a statement;
  - Expressions is the content inside of statements, like `5 + 3`.
    - E.g. `let y = (5 + 3)` is a statement, that contains the expression `5 + 3`
- Square braces vs curly braces: Generally, just think square = array, and curly = everything else.
  - There's more to it of course but for now we'll stick with that
- Unicode characters -- for security reasons. Be very careful when determining non-ASCII characters such as "é" is it can either "\u{e9}" or "e\u{301}". Both are different but look indistinguishable! **This is known as a homograph attack**

# What I did

- I thought I'd write down my thoughts and things that I learn.
- Thought about how I'd methodically return to my previous study journals to either reincorporate that content, or at least review it.
  - Probably assigning a number to each entry, and then using a random number generator to locate a study journal to review.
