---
author: tpotts
pubDatetime: 2023-09-28T00:00:00Z
title: Study Journal 28-09-2023
slug: sj-20230928
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - study-journal
  - flutter
  - testing
description: Study Journal entry for 28-09-2023
---

# What I learnt

## Things I've learnt:

### DEVELOPMENT - Testing Framework

I have to make sure that I'm doing the following for each module that we are developing:

- Testing API Calls via Postman
- Unit Testing via flutter_test
- Widget Testing via flutter_test
- Integration Testing via integration_test

It would worth spending time to go through a workflow template for each module.

### POTENTIAL MODULES - Pipe dream?

Would be useful to determine if these potential modules could work:

- Timesheet - Replacement for Deputy
- Agenda - Let users set up meetings, set agendas, action items, notes, etc.

### UPDATED - Working back-to-front or Who's Layer Is It Anyway?

So yesterday's post - I thought that layers worked in this way:

1.  Back-end architecture (database)
2.  Back-end providers (data fetchers)
3.  Back-end controllers & API (data source helpers or endpoints)
4.  Front-end business logic / state or data updaters / handlers (handlers)
5.  Front-end design / presenation layer

No turns out I've been wrong, it's actually more like this (going from top-most layer first to lowest layer):

1.  **Presentation Layer** - Determines how thinks look, and how the user interacts with the app
2.  **Abstraction between Presentation and Logic** - Abstractions that define what actions the UI can request _**but not how they're executed.**_
3.  **Logic Layer** - It decides what to do based on user input, processes data, and determines what data to fetch or store
4.  **Abstraction between Logic and Data** - Abstractions that define what data operations can be performed _**but not how they are executed.**_
5.  **Data Access Layer** \- This is how we interact with information for use in the application
6.  **Abstraction between Data Access and Database** - Not needed for us for the App because of Firestore, but often required in traditional set-ups. Same idea, determines what can happen but not how it happens.
7.  **Database** \- This is where actual storage of the data is kept.

A good way of conceptualising these abstractions is “Need to know basis”. What information does this layer require from the others?
