---
author: tpotts
pubDatetime: 2023-10-11T00:00:00Z
title: Study Journal 11-10-2023
slug: sj-20231011
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - study-journal
  - leetcode
  - javascript
description: Study Journal entry for 11-10-2023
---

# What I learnt

## What I'm studying (a bit) - Head First Javascript

Might be wondering why Javascript? Aren't you doing Flutter?

Well I realised that I'm not as techincal as I originally thought - I thought that I had a good understanding of data structures, data types, syntax, etc. I was passable for writing programs - maybe semi-technical is a good way of putting it.

So I have been listening to podcasts to get some guidance, and I stumbled upon a random podcast that recommended this book. Just so it can help speed up learning of general programming. I'll be doing this **alongside** regular development to sharpern my skills so I can develop more effectively.

Even with using tools like no-code, low-code, or even LLM models - it still doesn't bridge the gap between actually understanding, and being able to guide those tools to productive use. That's really what I think is the key benefit of those, they can _occassionally_ guide us in active development. But they're really better off as code monkeys when we have a crystal clear vision of what's needed.

What is needed is probably the following:

- A gradual ramping up of complexity in concepts while implementing them into real life use case applications.
- A deep understanding of architectures - including data structures, data types.
- Cataloging (which is what I'm doing here) useful bits of information, by looking to see what other developers are doing for common problems - do I really have to reinvent the wheel here?
- How do I not want to kill myself when something needs to be reworked which means a rewrite of a lot of stuff?

I hope that this book (from what I've heard) - will explain key concepts in a way that is designed to actively guide me through how to think like a programmer. I kind of have that already? But it's not really formalised in any way.

## Looking a fool: Reinventing the wheel or using potentially poor tools?

I realised that in my stage of knowledge with programming … I need someone to hold my hand relatively closely still. Especially when learning new languages, concepts, etc.

It's the choice between reinventing the wheel on things, or risk using potentially poor tools when I am navigating through a new type of learning.

I'm going to reach out to Jamie, and continue on with reading the book.

# What I did

## Leetcode - Problem #1

Anyway so I'm using Leetcode now. This will be a regular thing. These will be random notes and insights gained.

Anyway I'm probably going to require at least some **very basic** syntax knowledge.

### Question

Write a function `createHelloWorld`. It should return a new function that always returns `"Hello World"`.

### Examples

**Example 1:**

**Input:** args = \[\]

**Output:** "Hello World"

**Explanation:** const f = createHelloWorld(); f(); // "Hello World" The function returned by createHelloWorld should always return "Hello World".

**Example 2:**

**Input:** args = \[{},null,42\]

**Output:** "Hello World"

**Explanation:** const f = createHelloWorld(); f({}, null, 42); // "Hello World" Any arguments could be passed to the function but it should still always return "Hello World".

### **Notes**

- I don't even know the syntax … yikes.
- Functions = resuable code to name and forget for later
- Data (primitives) = strings, ints, boolean. More complex data => Ordered Data. Choice in JS is **Array**

### End Result

Didn't even finish in time alloted! Will try again tomorrow.

## OutSystems - Architecture and Stuff

Yeah there's a lot to it but I'm getting the hang of it. I definitely think with what we're doing with the business now that we'd be doing this as the solution.

Sorry Flutter.
