---
author: tpotts
pubDatetime: 2024-07-30T00:00:00Z
title: Study Journal 30-07-2024
slug: sj-20240730
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - study-journal
description: Study Journal entry for 30-07-2024
---
#### [:rewind: Go back to index](../@index.md)

# Diary Entry - 30/07/2024

## What I'm working on:

- Figuring out how to make a working prototype of _Shit-Sandwich_.
- What we should be doing for MPCH -- now that the web app is just going to be hosted on Google Sheets.
- Figuring out a boilerplate for designing / creating a new project.
- Understanding how to rework _ugly_ code instead of abandoning it.

## Things that I figured out:

### Markdown inside of VS Code can be used to create a wiki-like strucutre with links

- [Link to Stack Overflow thread how to insert links inside of markdown.](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59030873/keyboard-shortcut-in-vscode-for-markdown-links)
- [Link to another markdown file inside of VS Code](./@template.md)
- [Link to above file using headers.](./@template.md#header-2)

### Miscellaneous things

- Most programmers aren't happy because things are so complicated because of a few reasons:
  - Codebases become too big that maintaining is a nightmare;
  - Frameworks starts causing more pain than takes it away;
  - Shipping code trumps creativity, and best practices is thrown out over speed;
  - Unclear instructions; or
  - Poor management.
    <br>
    <br>
- [This article titled "Things you should never do, part 1".](https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2000/04/06/things-you-should-never-do-part-i/) The main points that I got from it:
  - Throwing away your code is the **worst mistake you can make**.
  - Comes down to a miriad of factors:
    - Code is easier to write than to read -- because everyone writes code slightly differently;
    - Architectural problems -- the layers of the program have not been properly defined or are poorly managed.
    - Mirage of inefficiency -- probably overstated because of the advance in processing speeds, network speeds, etc. Even "messy" code that works, often works better than expected.
    - It's ugly -- using simple "Search and replace" can fix inconsistent naming, or it's "too long/big/unwieldy" so where practical use things like syntactic sugar to cut down on the mental friction of ugly code.
  - Old code has been worked on over the years, bugs have been fixed, etc. Throwing away old code is throwing away all of that knowledge and progress.
  - Goes back to [this comment in the Problem Solving](../../fixes/Problem_Solving.md#6-reflect) document that says **"It's always easier to refactor a complete piece of code - then to write a perfect piece of code."**

## Things I did:

- Reorganised all of the markdown files that I have scattered across various apps (Wiki-JS, Zettlr, Notion, etc) into this git repo. Much simpler and centralised now.
- Started documenting more shit, including what I did to **fix** things from start to finish.
- [Updated the problem solving document](../../fixes/Problem_Solving.md#added---30072024) to include recent thoughts from Reddit.
- Worked on the design documents for the [**User Interface**](../../projects/Shit-Sandwich/components/User_Interface.md) and the [**Web3 Interface**](../../projects/Shit-Sandwich/components/Web3_Interface.md) documents for Shit-Sandwich.

